#42 resolve integration (#54)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/integration_resources/software/resolve.md

# Davinci Resolve

## Running Shift in Davinci Resolve

> Shift can be integrated in Davinci Resolve and used to automatize editorial process using all the catalog provided with Shift, but specially the Shift_Resolve catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shift can be integrated in Davinci Resolve and used to automate editorial process using all the catalog provided with Shift, but specially the Shift_Resolve catalog.
```

<figure>
      <img src="images/resolve_shift_ui.png" alt="Resolve Shift UI">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift UI in Davinci Resolve.</figcaption>
</figure>

> To run Shift inside Davinci Resolve is required to set up the configuration required by Blackmagic to have the ability of execution python code inside Resolve. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Shift inside Davinci Resolve it is required to set up the configuration required by Blackmagic to have the ability of executing Python code inside Resolve.
```

Author: I commited the suggestion from Julia

## Python Interpreter Setup

Blackmagic usually provides a `Readme.txt` file where these requirements are detailed for the version in use in the installation folder `C:\ProgramData\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Developer\Scripting\Readme.txt`

> Apart from the official requirements, the `PYTHONHOME` environment is required to be set. It must point to the python interpreter to be used in Resolve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apart from the official requirements, the `PYTHONHOME` environment is required to be set. It must point to the Python interpreter to be used in Resolve.
```

To use the Python interpreter provided with Shift, set up the variable in this way:

> **SHIFT_PROCESS_NUKE** : <path_to_your_shift_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**SHIFT_PROCESS_RESOLVE** : <path_to_your_shift_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python
```

Author: ups, thx for flagging it, but is PYTHONHOME, we can not execute Resolve with the WorkflowProcess. I will fix, thx!

Author: done

> **SHIFT_PROCESS_NUKE** : <path_to_your_shift_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python

Author: I just forgot to change the name of SHIFT_PROCESS to PYTHONHOME.

But yes, the objective of the section is different, I can remove the section and merge it with the previous one.

> **SHIFT_PROCESS_NUKE** : <path_to_your_shift_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python

Author: done

## Shift Menu

> The Resolve Script menus for python files are limited to add entries to the section of `Workspace>Scripts` and split by workspaces layouts inside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Resolve Script menus for Python files are limited to add entries to the section of `Workspace>Scripts` and splitted by workspaces layouts inside.
```

> To add a new entry and have a Shift menu in Resolve, is required to add a python script to the Resolve Scripts folder. This folder can be different for each Resolve version, and it's recommended to check the right directory for the version that is being used. However, typically the folder is located in this locations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new entry and have a Shift menu in Resolve, is required to add a Python script to the Resolve Scripts folder. This folder can be different for each Resolve version, and it's recommended to check the right directory for the version that is being used. However, typically the folder is located in these locations:
```

Mac OS X:
  - All users: /Library/Application Support/Blackmagic Design/DaVinci Resolve/Fusion/Scripts

>   - Specific user:  /Users/<UserName>/Library/Application Support/Blackmagic Design/DaVinci Resolve/Fusion/Scripts

Reviewer: Question here, if Shift will be launched for Windows and Linux first, do we need to specify these directories now or wait until the release?

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to add specifications for Mac

Author: Ok, I will remove them

Author: done

Windows:
  - All users: %PROGRAMDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Fusion\Scripts
  - Specific user: %APPDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Fusion\Scripts

Linux:
  - All users: /opt/resolve/Fusion/Scripts  (or /home/resolve/Fusion/Scripts/ depending on installation)

>   - Specific user: $HOME/.local/share/DaVinciResolve/Fusion/Scripts

Reviewer 2: I would wrap this around a note with flags. You can have a look at how to do this here:

https://github.com/Inbibo/shift_docs/blob/9b27490022cf68128d175d6821cde09029b5944f/docs/reference/logger.md?plain=1#L32-L39

Author: done

> To add Shift, is required to create a Python Script inside one workspace folder, `Edit` for example. The Python file name will be used like menu name too, soo name the file `Shift`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add Shift as a menu option, it is required to create a Python Script inside one workspace folder, `Edit` for example. The Python file name will be used like menu name too, soo name the file `Shift`.
```

> For a windows local user, the result path for the file will be this one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a Windows local user, the result path for the file will be this one:
```

`%APPDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Fusion\Scripts\Edit\Shift.py`

Inside the file, add the following code:

```python
from shift.tools import shiftui
shiftui.show()
```

With this file saved, Resolve will show a Shift menu that can be executed to open the Shift UI inside Davinci Resolve.

<figure>
      <img src="images/resolve_shift_menu.png" alt="Shift Menu">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Shift Menu on Davinci Resolve's top menu bar.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Catalogs

> Shift provides a catalog with operators specific to work within Davinci Resolve. This catalog is not zipped with the main instalation of Shift, but it can be access and downloaded from [Shift_Resolve](https://github.com/Inbibo/Shift_Resolve).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shift provides a catalog with operators specific to work within Davinci Resolve. This catalog is not zipped with the main instalation of Shift, but it can be accessed and downloaded from [Shift_Resolve](https://github.com/Inbibo/Shift_Resolve).
```

> Shift provides a catalog with operators specific to work within Davinci Resolve. This catalog is not zipped with the main instalation of Shift, but it can be access and downloaded from [Shift_Resolve](https://github.com/Inbibo/Shift_Resolve).

Reviewer 2: I would explain how to add this catalog to Shift. The steps are similar to the USD catalog steps.

Author: I think is redundant to explain how to add a Catalog to Shift in each catalog page, would not be better just to have one page explaining how to add a catalog in the environment or with the Catalog Manager and just reference that page? the process is the same for all the Catalogs

Reviewer 2: Ok. Anyways, probably we need to add a README in each repo for the external resources explaining how to add the catalog and what are the requirements to use it.

Author: Ok nice. Yes, is just that I think that explain the same process in all the catalogs documentation pages could be redundant. But have one page to explain that and a READMe for each repo I would be nice

<figure>
      <img src="images/resolve_shift_ui.png" alt="Resolve Shift UI">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift UI in Davinci Resolve.</figcaption>
</figure>

To run Shift inside Davinci Resolve it is required to set up the configuration needed by Blackmagic to be able to execute Python code inside Resolve. 

Blackmagic usually provides a `Readme.txt` file where these requirements are detailed for the version in use in the installation folder `C:\ProgramData\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Developer\Scripting\Readme.txt`

Apart from the official requirements, the `PYTHONHOME` environment is required to be set. It must point to the Python interpreter to be used in Resolve.

To use the Python interpreter provided with Shift, set up the variable in this way:

**PYTHONHOME** : <path_to_your_shift_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python

It's required to add to the PATH the directories of Shift too. This paths can be added in the environment, before open Resolve, or in the python file where Shift will be executed.

```
PATH: <path_to_your_shift_folder>

> PATH: <path_to_your_shift_folder>/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages

Author: I have already changed this by a request from @juliavisserinbibo . Maybe we need to agree on something between all the team, before I change the same again @Inbibo/shift . What do you prefer?

> PATH: <path_to_your_shift_folder>/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages

Author: done

```

## Shift Menu

The Resolve Script menus for Python files are limited to add entries to the section of `Workspace>Scripts` and splitted by workspaces layouts inside.

To add a new entry and have a Shift menu in Resolve, is required to add a Python script to the Resolve Scripts folder. This folder can be different for each Resolve version, and it's recommended to check the right directory for the version that is being used. However, typically the folder is located in these locations:

> [!NOTE = Resolve Scripts Folders]
> === Windows:
>  - All users: %PROGRAMDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Fusion\Scripts
>  - Specific user: %APPDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Fusion\Scripts
>
> === Linux:
>  - All users: /opt/resolve/Fusion/Scripts  (or /home/resolve/Fusion/Scripts/ depending on installation)
>  - Specific user: $HOME/.local/share/DaVinciResolve/Fusion/Scripts

> To add Shift as a menu option, it is required to create a Python Script inside one workspace folder, `Edit` for example. The Python file name will be used like menu name too, soo name the file `Shift`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add Shift as a menu option, it is required to create a Python Script inside a workspace folder, `Edit` for example. The Python file name will be used as the menu name, soo name the file `Shift`.
```

For a Windows local user, the result path for the file will be this one:
`%APPDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Fusion\Scripts\Edit\Shift.py`

Inside the file, add the following code:

```python
import sys
sys.path.append("<path_to_your_shift_folder>")
sys.path.append("<path_to_your_shift_folder>/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages")

from shift.tools import shiftui
shiftui.show()
```

>[!NOTE]

> > If the paths are added in the system or in the environment before opening Resolve, then lines to append the path to the system won't be required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> If the paths are added in the system or in the environment before opening Resolve, then the code to append the path to the system won't be required.
```

With this file saved, Resolve will show a Shift menu that can be executed to open the Shift UI inside Davinci Resolve.

<figure>
      <img src="images/resolve_shift_menu.png" alt="Shift Menu">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Shift Menu on Davinci Resolve's top menu bar.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Catalogs

> Shift provides a catalog with operators specific to work within Davinci Resolve. This catalog is not zipped with the main instalation of Shift, but it can be accessed and downloaded from [Shift_Resolve](https://github.com/Inbibo/Shift_Resolve).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Shift provides a catalog with operators specific to work within Davinci Resolve. This catalog is not shipped with the main instalation of Shift, but it can be accessed and downloaded from [Shift_Resolve](https://github.com/Inbibo/Shift_Resolve).

```

<figure>
      <img src="images/resolve_shift_ui.png" alt="Resolve Shift UI">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift UI in Davinci Resolve.</figcaption>
</figure>

To run Shift inside Davinci Resolve it is required to set up the configuration needed by Blackmagic to be able to execute Python code inside Resolve. 

Blackmagic usually provides a `Readme.txt` file where these requirements are detailed for the version in use in the installation folder `C:\ProgramData\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Developer\Scripting\Readme.txt`

Apart from the official requirements, the `PYTHONHOME` environment is required to be set. It must point to the Python interpreter to be used in Resolve.

To use the Python interpreter provided with Shift, set up the variable in this way:

**PYTHONHOME** : <path_to_your_shift_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python

It's required to add to the PATH the directories of Shift too. This paths can be added in the environment, before open Resolve, or in the python file where Shift will be executed.

```
PATH: <path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>

> PATH: <path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
PATH: <path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages

```

> [!NOTE = Resolve Scripts Folders]
> === Windows:
>  - All users: %PROGRAMDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Fusion\Scripts
>  - Specific user: %APPDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Fusion\Scripts
>
> === Linux:
>  - All users: /opt/resolve/Fusion/Scripts  (or /home/resolve/Fusion/Scripts/ depending on installation)
>  - Specific user: $HOME/.local/share/DaVinciResolve/Fusion/Scripts

To add Shift as a menu option, it is required to create a Python Script inside a workspace folder, `Edit` for example. The Python file name will be used as the menu name, soo name the file `Shift`.

For a Windows local user, the result path for the file will be this one:
`%APPDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Fusion\Scripts\Edit\Shift.py`

Inside the file, add the following code:

```python
import sys
sys.path.append("<path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>")

> sys.path.append("<path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages")

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
sys.path.append("<path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages")

```

# Davinci Resolve

## Running Shift in Davinci Resolve

Shift can be integrated in Davinci Resolve and used to automate editorial process using all the catalog provided with Shift, but specially the Shift_Resolve catalog.

<figure>
      <img src="images/resolve_shift_ui.png" alt="Resolve Shift UI">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift UI in Davinci Resolve.</figcaption>
</figure>

To run Shift inside Davinci Resolve it is required to set up the configuration needed by Blackmagic to be able to execute Python code inside Resolve. 

Blackmagic usually provides a `Readme.txt` file where these requirements are detailed for the version in use in the installation folder `C:\ProgramData\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Developer\Scripting\Readme.txt`

Apart from the official requirements, the `PYTHONHOME` environment is required to be set. It must point to the Python interpreter to be used in Resolve.

To use the Python interpreter provided with Shift, set up the variable in this way:

**PYTHONHOME** : <path_to_your_shift_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python

> It's required to add to the PATH the directories of Shift too. This paths can be added in the environment, before open Resolve, or in the python file where Shift will be executed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To source Shift in Davinci Resolve the directories of Shift must also be added to the PATH environment variable. These  environment variables must be set before opening Resolve or in the script that will launch Shift.

```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To source Shift in Davinci Resolve the directories of Shift must also be added to the PATH environment variable. The paths to the directories must be set before opening Resolve or in the script that will launch Shift.

```

> ```
> PATH: <path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>
> PATH: <path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages
> 
> ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**PATH** : <path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>
**PATH** : <path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages

```

## Shift Menu

> The Resolve Script menus for Python files are limited to add entries to the section of `Workspace > Scripts` and splitted by workspace layouts inside.

Reviewer 4: This one should probably be reviewed by @JorgeHernandezibanezinbibo 

```suggestion
The Davinci Resolve Script menus can add entries to the section of `Workspace > Scripts`.

```

Author: @albertochimentiinbibo what's the problem with the original? I'm not sure if I agree with the suggestion.
```suggestion
The Davinci Resolve Script menus for Python files are limited to the section of `Workspace > Scripts` and splitted by workspace layouts inside (1 folder per layout).

```

The workspace layout part is importand because depending in what folder do you add Shift, Shift will appear in a different Resolve layout. The menus are not the same in the Edit layout and the cut or FX layout for example. Make sense?

Reviewer 2: I think that the sentence is not clear enough to understand what you refer to.
Do you mean that Python files that define a menu should be added in the `Workspace > Scripts` section?
And that this section is divided by folders per layout?
I think the confusing word here is "limited". What do you mean with limited?

Author: I mean that the only way to add a menu is to add a Python file to make it apper like an entry in `Workspace > Scripts` there are not other way to create a python menu in Davinci Resolve. And inside that, is divided by folders per layout, yes.

Reviewer 2: Ok, what do you think about this?
```suggestion
Custom sub-menus in DaVinci Resolve are defined by Python files that are added as entries to the `Workspace -> Scripts` menu section. This section is divided into folders, with each one corresponding to a workspace layout.
```

Author: For me it´s ok. @albertochimentiinbibo ?

Reviewer 4: yes please commt it

> [!NOTE = Resolve Scripts Folders]
> === Windows:
>  - All users: %PROGRAMDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Fusion\Scripts
>  - Specific user: %APPDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Fusion\Scripts
>
> === Linux:
>  - All users: /opt/resolve/Fusion/Scripts  (or /home/resolve/Fusion/Scripts/ depending on installation)
>  - Specific user: $HOME/.local/share/DaVinciResolve/Fusion/Scripts

To add Shift as a menu option, it is required to create a Python Script inside a workspace folder, `Edit` for example. The Python file name will be used as the menu name, soo name the file `Shift`.

For a Windows local user, the result path for the file will be this one:
`%APPDATA%\Blackmagic Design\DaVinci Resolve\Support\Fusion\Scripts\Edit\Shift.py`

Inside the file, add the following code:

```python
import sys
sys.path.append("<path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>")
sys.path.append("<path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages")

from shift.tools import shiftui
shiftui.show()

> ```

Reviewer 2: Update to use code block formatting 
https://github.com/Inbibo/shift_docs/issues/60#issuecomment-2326086193

>[!NOTE]

> > If the paths are added in the system or in the environment before opening Resolve, then the code to append the path to the system won't be required.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> If the paths are added to the environment before opening Resolve, then the code to append the Shift installation folders to the **PATH** will not be required.

```

> With this file saved, Resolve will show a Shift menu that can be executed to open the Shift UI inside Davinci Resolve.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With this file saved, Resolve will show a Shift menu that can be clicked on to open the Shift UI inside Davinci Resolve.

```

<figure>
      <img src="images/resolve_shift_menu.png" alt="Shift Menu">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Shift Menu on Davinci Resolve's top menu bar.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Catalogs

> Shift provides a catalog with operators specific to work within Davinci Resolve. This catalog is not shipped with the main instalation of Shift, but it can be accessed and downloaded from [Shift_Resolve](https://github.com/Inbibo/Shift_Resolve).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Shift provides a catalog with operators to work with Davinci Resolve. This catalog is not shipped with Shift, but it can be accessed and downloaded from [Shift_Resolve](https://github.com/Inbibo/Shift_Resolve).

```
